---
  templateKey: "action"
  title: "Stereo-type"
  category: "Survey"
  date: "2010"
  location: "online"
  description: "The project Stereo-type represents a research on the subject of stereotypes. As people are prone to them, the Guerilla team wanted to carry out a questionnaire-based research about stereotypes among Serbs and Germans alike, and in that way show how much these two nations have in common, which is often overlooked due to the stereotypes they have towards one another. The goal of this research was to develop a critical awareness about the subject by molding the most common misconceptions into various art forms.\nThe online questionnaire was available to the public for several months, during which 150 people shared their opinions about Serbian and German people. The majority of examinees had the opportunity to travel to the opposing country and stated their desire to go back there again, while the examinees who expressed their reluctance to do so was negligible. 10% of Serbian examinees perceive Germans as their historical enemies, while the number of like-minded Germans is negligible.\nAccording to the survey results, German people still perceive Serbian people as they used to perceive all people from the Balkans region: warmhearted, patriarchal and hospitable on the one hand, but nationalistic, arrogant and aggressive on the other. Serbian people still claim that Germans nurture collectivism, diligence, punctuality, are sometimes stiff but righteous, disciplined, decent, frugal, organized and precise. Serbian people now know that Germans can be curious and sentimental, but also realize that they are more ecologically aware and like to spend time with their friends in nature.\nGermans people think that Serbs have a rich musical culture, are creative and dynamic. Even though the sample was not representative (Serbian people were mostly from Belgrade, and the sample was formed by students, highly educated, working populous, between 20 to 40 years of  \nThe project Stereo-type represents a research on the subject of stereotypes. As people are prone to them, the Guerilla team wanted to carry out a questionnaire-based research about stereotypes among Serbs and Germans alike, and in that way show how much these two nations have in common, which is often overlooked due to the stereotypes they have towards one another. The goal of this research was to develop a critical awareness about the subject by molding the most common misconceptions into various art forms.\nThe online questionnaire was available to the public for several months, during which 150 people shared their opinions about Serbian and German people. The majority of examinees had the opportunity to travel to the opposing country and stated their desire to go back there again, while the examinees who expressed their reluctance to do so was negligible. 10% of Serbian examinees perceive Germans as their historical enemies, while the number of like-minded Germans is negligible.\nAccording to the survey results, German people still perceive Serbian people as they used to perceive all people from the Balkans region: warmhearted, patriarchal and hospitable on the one hand, but nationalistic, arrogant and aggressive on the other. Serbian people still claim that Germans nurture collectivism, diligence, punctuality, are sometimes stiff but righteous, disciplined, decent, frugal, organized and precise. Serbian people now know that Germans can be curious and sentimental, but also realize that they are more ecologically aware and like to spend time with their friends in nature.\nGermans people think that Serbs have a rich musical culture, are creative and dynamic. Even though the sample was not representative (Serbian people were mostly from Belgrade, and the sample was formed by students, highly educated, working populous, between 20 to 40 years of age), the Guerilla team noticed no distinctive change in stereotypes among these two nations, with the exception of a few novel moments, brought by the new era."
  tags: 
    - "Belgrade"
    - "Dialogue"
    - "online"
  members: 
    - "Boris Baščarević"
    - "Danilo Borišić"
    - "Turbo God"
    - "Dragana Žarevac"
    - "Zorica Milisavljević"
    - "Dragana Žarevac"
    - "Zorica Milisavljević"
